The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Pioneer Home, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Pioneer Home

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: April 26, 2021 [eBook #65168]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PIONEER HOME ***




                           _the_ Pioneer Home


    [Illustration: Dedicatory plaque above fireplace in Pioneer Home]

  THIS HOME OF AN OHIO PIONEER IS DEDICATED TO THE EARLY SETTLERS OF THE
  MIAMI VALLEY. THROUGH COURAGE, TOIL AND PERSEVERANCE, THEY OVERCAME
  HARDSHIP AND DANGER, AND BROUGHT CIVILIZATION TO THE WILDERNESS.

    [Illustration: Fireplace in pioneer home]

The Pioneer Home, which serves as an Information Center for Carillon
Park, is believed to have been built about 1815.

It was originally located in Washington Township about five miles
southwest of Centerville on Social Row Road, about halfway between
Sheehan Road and Yankee Street. In the spring of 1953 it was torn down
and moved to Carillon Park, where it was rebuilt, using the original
stones and timbers.

Abstract records in the Court House show that the 20-acre plot on which
this house was originally located was sold by Abner and Patsy Garrard on
February 14, 1815, to William Morris and his wife. The purchase price
was $140. Later records show that the Morrises sold the property on
September 18, 1838, for $753. The difference in the purchase and selling
prices was the largest in over 50 years and indicates that the house was
built sometime during that 23-year period.

Since 1858 the property has had a number of owners, including an
Elizabeth Morris, who bought it in 1856 and lived there for 30 years.
Whether she was related to the builder of the house is not known. In
1896 the property was purchased by Mr. and Mrs. Hugh E. Brunk, who lived
in the house until 1907.

Most houses built in the early 1800’s were made of logs and chinked with
plaster made of lime and sand. This house was built of a good quality
white limestone, the reason probably being that stone was easier to
obtain than logs in this particular location, because a stone quarry was
located scarcely a quarter-mile away. The old quarry, near Sheehan Road,
long since has been abandoned.

    [Illustration: Pioneers and Conestoga wagon]

The stone walls of the house were about 18 inches thick and the inside
surface of these walls was plastered. The whole interior of the
downstairs rooms, except the floors, was whitewashed. The interior
dimensions of the lower floor are 15 by 23 feet.

Floor joists, rafters, and shingle laths were all hand hewn from white
oak. Examination of the floor joists disclosed that four of them had
been split from the same log. All wooden trim and the door and window
frames were of black walnut. In the period when this house was built,
the use of this kind of wood was not at all uncommon even in barns.

The floor boards were about one and a quarter inches thick and were of
beech and walnut. There is no ridge pole to support the roof, but the
rafters are notched and put together with wooden pins. The split
shingles were of oak. In the work of reconstruction, all of the stone
used is the original stone except the floor, which formerly was of wood.
The ceiling beams, attic flooring, rafters and most of the shingle laths
are originals. The remaining woodwork which was in bad condition has
been replaced but the original details of design and construction have
been carefully reproduced.

The fireplace chimneys are a part of the end walls. This style of
architecture shows the Moravian influence, the Moravians being a
religious sect who came to Ohio mostly from North Carolina,
Pennsylvania, and Georgia.

Wooden partitions at one time divided the lower floor into three rooms:
two tiny bedrooms and the living room. Because they made the rooms so
small, these partitions were not included when the house was rebuilt.

Each room had its own fireplace. The large one was used for cooking and
for heating the combination kitchen and living room. The two smaller
fireplaces were in the bedrooms. They were connected to a single chimney
and have been omitted.

The large fireplace was the center of activity for the household. Every
morning a large log would be brought in and placed on the embers left
from the fire of the night before. This log would be big enough to last
the day, and smaller sticks and logs would be put in front of it. If no
coals survived from the night before, the fire had to be lighted by
sparks from flint and steel, which was always a tedious task, or coals
might be borrowed from a neighbor. This was seldom necessary because
most families took care not to let their fires go out.

Hinged to the side of the big fireplace was a crane with pot hooks or
“trammels” on which cooking utensils were hung. Its deep pit provided
storage for wood ashes so necessary to the pioneer for the making of lye
used in making soap and hominy. Nearby was the inevitable bellows—known
in those days as “belluses”—and the hearth brush.

Cooking over an open fireplace was difficult, but many housewives became
very proficient at it, and meat cooked in this way had a flavor
unexcelled by any mode of cooking today.

The big fireplace also had its disadvantages. With the first frost,
flies were likely to swarm down through the chimney and into the room.

On one side of the fireplace was a built-in cupboard where cooking
utensils and dishes were kept. The plates and bowls usually were made of
wood or pewter, and the knives, forks and spoons of horn. Also in the
cupboard might be found a bread basket, dough trough, candle-stick
molds, a bootjack, and a box of sand used to polish the pewter ware.

On the other side of the fireplace was a steep staircase leading to the
attic and typical of those found in small houses of the period.

Nearby, perhaps over the fireplace, were suspended a flint-lock musket
and powder horn. Hanging from the ceiling of the room might be a warming
pan, raccoon skins, fox pelts, slabs of bacon and venison, chains of
sausages, and strings of dried apples and red peppers. And on a
convenient shelf was the family Bible, the leather cover of which was
used—without any disrespect intended—by the man of the house for
stropping his straight-edge razor.

    [Illustration: Flatboat on river]

The attic of the house was floored with rough boards but was otherwise
unfurnished. It had been used as a bedroom, and imagination can conjure
the image of a small, wide-eyed boy lying on a pallet of rustling corn
husks, listening to the wind rattle the shingles and dodging an
occasional drop of rain which seeped through. Perhaps it wasn’t always
imagination when he heard the howl of wolves or the yell of a passing
Indian. A portion of the attic floor has been cut away so visitors may
see the original rafters and shingle strips.

    [Illustration: Fireplace]

About the time the Pioneer Home was built, carpenter work was relatively
expensive. Dormer windows containing 12 panes of glass cost $12; door
frames were 8c a linear foot and window frames 16c. Panel doors were
priced at 75c per panel. This partially explains why the windows were
few and small. Another reason, of course, was the difficulty of heating
the house adequately in the winter. It was also very difficult to
transport large panes of glass over rough roads from the East.

The house at one time had a partial basement with dirt floor, but it had
no porches. At a later date a wooden lean-to was added at the rear but
it has long since disappeared. This addition housed a bedroom and
kitchen.

In the yard behind the house there was probably an outdoor fire pit with
a large iron kettle suspended above it. This kettle was used for making
soap, lard, and apple butter, and on wash days for boiling clothes.
There was also a smokehouse and tobacco-drying and stripping shed.

Also just outside the back door was a rough wooden water bench on which
were a wooden basin, a gourd dipper, and soap made of grease, ashes and
sand.

As was the practice in those days, the house was located on the bank of
a small stream, a tributary of Hole’s Creek. Near this stream, a well
was dug and a well-sweep erected for lowering the oaken bucket into the
well.

This Pioneer Home was placed in Carillon Park to show the people of this
generation how their forefathers lived. The purpose of this book, too,
is to describe the hardships overcome by the pioneers who braved the
unknown wilderness to help carve the destiny that we, as Americans,
enjoy today.

Of William Morris and his wife, little is known. But much is known of
the era in which they lived.

Most of the early pioneers who came to the Miami Valley trekked westward
over the rough mountain trails to Pittsburgh and then sailed down the
Ohio River. A few more hardy souls came overland all the way.

These settlers were attracted to the Valley by descriptions of this
“fabulous” land where the earth needed “only to be tickled with the hoe
to laugh with the harvest.”

The trip westward was both expensive and uncomfortable. Household goods
and supplies were loaded in “road wagons” and the wife and children
clambered on top of the load. The man of the family and the larger boys
usually rode horses.

As many as six horses were used to pull the lumbering wagons over the
steep mountain trails, and often it was necessary to stop during the
ascent to rest the horses. At these times large rocks were placed behind
the wheels to keep the wagons from rolling backward. The deep mud of the
valleys was almost as difficult to overcome.

It was a relief indeed when the Alleghenies had been crossed and the
family safely transferred to the “broad horn” river boat. The journey
downstream was more serene, but was long and tiring. However, there was
always something new to be seen around the next bend of the river and
always stories to listen to ... stories of singing fish, of wild Indian
raids, and of the fine town of Losantiville, the early name for
Cincinnati. The entire journey from Pittsburgh to Cincinnati required
about six weeks. The trip from Cincinnati to Dayton was usually made by
wagon, although some boats were “poled” up the Miami River at a speed of
about eight miles a day.

    [Illustration: Essential to the pioneer of the early American
    frontier was a dependable rifle to provide food and protection for
    his family. This “Kentucky Rifle,” a muzzle loader which used
    percussion caps, was fashioned about 1830 by a Pennsylvania gunsmith
    for Jacob Deeds, great-grandfather of Colonel E. A. Deeds whose
    grandfather, Andrew Deeds, brought it to Ohio in 1850. This rifle is
    a later version of the flintlock rifle which made possible
    settlement of the dark, lonely and often dangerous forests that once
    covered most of Ohio. It now is mounted on the wall of the Pioneer
    Home.]

It was in February, 1796, that the first surveying party came to what is
now Washington Township—the township in which the old stone house was
located. That was less than a year after Daniel Cooper came from
Cincinnati and laid out the town of Dayton.

The surveying group was made up of Aaron Nutt, Benjamin Robbins, and
Benjamin Archer. They pitched camp near what is now Centerville, but
were quick to move a couple of miles northeast when they discovered
signs of recent occupation of the site by Indians.

Although there were a few Indian raids in Montgomery County during its
earliest years, most of the Indians were peaceful except when drunk. The
major losses caused by them were through thievery of horses and other
livestock.

The three surveyors drew cuts for choice of lands and then returned to
Kentucky. The next spring Robbins returned with his wife and children.
They built a log cabin on a half-section of land west of the site of
Centerville. Nutt and Archer returned two years later.

    [Illustration: Sewing and Spinning]

One of the best-known early settlers was Dr. John Hole, who moved to the
area from New Jersey in 1797. He located three and a half miles
northwest of the site of Centerville on a stream which he named Silver
Creek. Because of his prominence in the community, the stream became
known as Hole’s Creek, and so it is named today. Dr. Hole erected a log
cabin with a clapboard roof and a “cat and clay chimney,” made of sticks
and clay. He later put up two sawmills. Being the only doctor in that
part of the Valley, Dr. Hole served patients ten and twelve miles away.

    [Illustration: Raising a Cabin]

Washington Township was organized in 1803, the same year Ohio became a
state and two years before Dayton was incorporated. It was named in
honor of General George Washington, for many of the early settlers were
formerly Revolutionary War soldiers. In the first election in that year
the township—then considerably larger than it is now—cast 95 votes for
governor.

The first church meeting in the area was held in 1799, but the first
church building was not occupied until four years later. It was called
the Sugar Creek Baptist Church. One of its early members and workers was
Abner Garrard, owner of the land on which the stone house later was
built. The first minister of the church was the Rev. Charles McDaniel,
who sometimes rode 30 miles to preach at some remote settlement. He was
paid only what his congregations desired to give him.

Because there were no traveled roads through the forests, trails leading
to the church were blazed on trees extending as far as five miles.

There were three small settlements in the township in those early days:
Centerville, near the center of the township; Woodburn to the northwest,
and Stringtown to the southeast.

No one was very rich or very poor in those days, and everyone worked. Of
all living creatures, wrote Benjamin Franklin, quoting an old Negro
saying, only the hog doesn’t work: “He eat, he drink, he walk about, he
go to sleep when he please, he live like a gentleman.”

    [Illustration: Schoolhouse]

It was true. The hogs roamed the forests at will, fattening on nuts, but
the horses and oxen and humans worked!

There was grain to be planted, but there were none except hand-wrought
plows, made from jack-oak sticks shaped and sharpened as best they could
be and more than often drawn by a team of slow-moving oxen broken to the
yoke. A few years later this primitive plow was improved by being tipped
with an iron point. The axe was often used to break the ground for
planting, and seed was dropped in by hand. There were no barns, so the
newly cut unthreshed grain was stacked in the fields. It was threshed
with flails or tramped out under animals’ hooves. Corn was gathered,
husked, and shelled by hand, and potatoes were dug with a sturdy pointed
stick.

The tilled land was used as much as possible. It was not unusual for a
flax patch to be sowed in March, harvested in June, and then planted
with potatoes.

Life in the early 1800’s was not all work, however, and sometimes
pleasure was combined with the chores that had to be done.

Erecting a cabin called for a log rolling or house raising party. The
men of the community assembled and then divided into small groups: one
group to fell the trees, another to drive the horses and drag the logs
to the site, another to shape the logs, another to saddle and notch the
corner logs and put them in place, and another to chink the cracks
between the logs. Thus, a cabin usually was erected in a single day, and
the work was accompanied by much merriment, usually ending with a party
in the new house that night.

Husking bees also enabled the young people to combine work with
pleasure. The work was accompanied by songs and stories, and occasional
squeals of laughter when one of the boys husked a red ear of corn, for
that entitled him to kiss the nearest girl. In the evening, supper was
served and it was followed by a dance and perhaps an opportunity for
couples to walk home by moonlight.

Bees or “frolics” also were held for reaping, sewing, quilting,
flax-scutching, and many other occasions.

There also was the more enjoyable work of making cider or maple sugar,
and the excitement of smoking a bee tree to obtain the honey inside.

Sleighing was a popular pastime in the winter. The young people bundled
themselves in warm clothing, placed bags of hot sand at their feet,
pulled bear skin robes over their knees and then set out with many a
laugh and song. On a crisp, clear night the sleighbells and the singing
could be heard from several miles distant.

The biggest social events of the day were the weddings. Often they
occurred at noon, to be followed by an afternoon of merry-making, a big
supper for the whole wedding party, and a dance in the evening. The most
popular dances were jigs, four-handed reels, double shuffles, and
scamper-downs.

The parents often helped their children start married life by giving
them a cow, ewe, or sow, a saddle, spinning wheel, kitchen utensils, or
a feather bed.

    [Illustration: Plowing with a yoke of oxen]

    [Illustration: Dancing]

A bride with an embroidered muslin gown for the wedding was considered
fortunate, indeed. Usually the women of the day wore clothing made of
“linsey.” This was made of linen and wool, often in plaids and stripes.
The men wore buckskin breeches, coonskin caps, and crude leather shoes,
boots, or moccasins. In summer they sometimes went barefoot, except when
they went into the forests. Men, women, boys and girls often wore a
loose outer jacket called a “wamus.”

Much of the cloth for clothing was made from flax or wool grown by the
settlers. Most of the housewives had spinning wheels, but only a few had
looms, for they were expensive and skill was required to operate them.
The weaving would be done for a fee by those who owned looms. Walnut
hulls were crushed and used for dye. Buttons were often made of thread,
and needles and pins were scarce and expensive.

The first store in Washington Township was established by Aaron Nutt,
Sr., in what is now Centerville. He took a flatboat load of produce to
Baltimore, sold it, and invested the money in a horse, a cart, and a
load of drygoods, which he brought overland to Ohio.

Cash was scarce and much of the trading was on a barter basis. To buy
items such as tea, coffee, leather, lead, powder, and iron, required
either money or certain items which were considered of cash value—linen
cloth, feathers, beeswax, and deerskins.

Here are some examples of prices charged in 1815: linsey $1 per yard;
cambric $2.25 per yard; darning needles 6¼c each; lead pencils 31c;
nutmegs 18c each; pewter dish $2.25; tea $2.50 per pound; 8-penny nails
21c per pound; calico 87½c per yard; salt $13 per 100 pounds; flour
$1.50 per barrel; wheat 25c per bushel; oats 10c per bushel.

Because of the high prices of coffee and tea, many housewives served
“flour chocolate,” a beverage made from corn, wheat and rye, or tea made
from spices, sassafras or sage. The housewife had to pulverize her own
spices, powder the salt, roast and grind the coffee, and make her own
yeast and soap.

Although some of the non-essentials were high in price, no one lacked
for food. Nearly every household had at least one cow, some chickens,
and some pigs. In 1810, records show that beef could be bought for 3c a
pound and pork for 3½c. Chickens were worth 75c a dozen and potatoes 25c
a bushel.

Wild turkeys, pheasants, rabbits, squirrels, ducks, geese, and deer
abounded in the forests. There was plenty of corn for hoe cakes, hominy
and mush; beans; blackberries; grapes; nuts; honey; and maple sap for
sugar.

    [Illustration: Pioneer home and yard]

For breakfast the man of the house might find on his table ham, eggs,
corn pone and fried potatoes, in addition to the standard dish, mush and
milk. For a variation, or if meats were not handy, hominy and mush might
be cooked in sweetened water with bear oil or grease from fried meat
added. For supper he might have wild turkey, smoked sausage or venison,
cheese, peaches or pears, and vegetables. Once a week in most households
the supper consisted of “pot luck,” made of meat and various vegetables,
cooked together in one big pot.

In almost every house there was a store of cider, brandy, rum or
whiskey, but the men seldom overindulged except at weddings and
funerals. It was not uncommon at such affairs for an argument to ensue
and end in a fist fight.

Schools followed the establishment of churches in the township. The
school building was a log cabin with a fireplace at one end, and it
often was erected in a single day. Desks were made of puncheons and
seats of flattened saplings. The children usually wrote with pens made
of goose quills, for pencils were too scarce and too expensive. Ink was
made from maple bark and copperas.

The school curriculum was confined to the “three R’s”: reading, ’riting,
and ’rithmetic, and no high standards were required of the teachers.
More often than not, the teacher was selected because of his or her
physical inability to do other work rather than an ability to teach.
Each patron paid his proportionate share of the cost of operating the
school, even to the point of boarding the teacher for a certain length
of time. The unfortunate teacher, like the pauper, was looked upon as a
person merely to be tolerated. All that was expected of the pupils was
the ability to write legibly, to read the Bible or an almanac, and to
compute the value of a load of produce.

Mail deliveries in the rural areas were unknown, but a post office was
established in Dayton in 1804, and by 1810 mail was being brought from
Cincinnati by horseback once a week.

The township people seldom had an opportunity to see a newspaper, and it
was a treat, indeed, when a copy of “The Ohio Watchman,” a 12- x 20-inch
paper printed in Dayton, fell into their hands. Often the paper would be
passed along from home to home many weeks after its date of printing.

In these crude surroundings our forefathers lived. They built their
cabins amid mud, stumps, poison ivy, mosquitoes, rattlesnakes, wolves,
and wildcats.

It was in this environment that babies were born and grew to healthy
adulthood, although they entered this world without benefit of sanitary
facilities and hospitals, and often even without the presence of a
doctor or midwife.

To imagine that wilderness civilization—without telephones, electricity,
bathrooms, furnaces, automobiles, trains, airplanes, radio, and
television—is difficult. But it is even more difficult to comprehend
that these improvements date back only a few short years to the
lifetimes of our own grandparents.

But amid the physical changes, one thing has not changed: the spirit
that conquered the wilderness. Thanks to that spirit, even greater
advancements, no doubt, are ahead.

And through those years to come, the Pioneer Home in Carillon Park will
remain as a symbol of hardships overcome, of progress through work, of
the strength of character that has built our America.

    [Illustration: Pioneer Newspaper]




                          _The Ohio Watchman._


 “_Truth, Equality and Literary Knowledge, are the three Grand Pillars
                        of Republican Liberty._”


                           VOL. II.    NO. 2.
    DAYTON, MONTGOMERY COUNTY, (OHIO,) THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1817.


                              PUBLISHED BY
                          _ROBERT J. SKINNER_,
                    EVERY THURSDAY MORNING, IN MAIN
                      STREET, TWO DOORS BELOW COL.
                          DAVID REID’S TAVERN.

                      THE TERMS OF THIS PAPER ARE.

_Two dollars per annum paid in advance—two dollars and fifty cents if
paid within the year, or three dollars if not paid until the expiration
of the year._

_No subscription taken for less than one year unless paid in advance._

_A failure to give notice of a discontinuance, will be considered a new
engagement._

☞_Letters addressed to the Editor must be post paid._


_Vendue._

Will be sold at public sale on the 25th of Dec. next on the plantation
of the subscriber, in Randolph township, 3 miles south of Daniel Rasor’s
Mill, near the Franklin road, the following property, viz: 9000 young
apple trees, a large number of which will be of good size to plant out
next spring, a young horse, a cow, a calf, a number of sheep, one
feather bed, &c. &c. Sale to commence at 10 o’clock. A credit will be
given to purchasers of ninety days, by giving notes with approved
security.

                                                           Jesse Farmer.
                              Nov. 9, 1817       1,3t

N. B. The apple trees may stand where they are until the spring of
1819—they will sold by the row, 56 in number.


_Notice._

_AGREEABLE_ to the 19th sec. of the Constitution of this state, the
people have a right to assemble together in a peaceable manner to
consult for their common good—to instruct their representatives, and to
apply to the Legislature for redress of grievances; therefore, for that
purpose the people of Montgomery county, (especially those residing in
the bounds of the corporation of the town of Dayton) are respectfully
invited to meet at the house of Col. David Reid, innkeeper, in the town
of Dayton, on Saturday the 13th inst. at early candle light.

                                                                   MANY.
                   _Dayton Dec. 4, 1817._      _1,3t_


_TAKEN UP_

ON the 15th of October last by Jacob Yants of German township,
Montgomery county.

A BLACK MARE supposed to be 4 years old, 14 hands high, newly shod
before, a small white spot in her forehead, and the hair taken off on
each side of the neck by the collar: no other marks perceivable.
Appraised to 30 dollars by John Worland and Michael Gunckle.

A true copy,

                                                       GEO. MILLER, J P.
                             Nov. 8, 1817.       1,3t


_TAKEN UP_

BY Elisha M’Coole of Newton township, Miami county, a sorrel mare with a
small star in her forehead and snip on her nose, light mane and tail,
some saddle marks, shod all round, supposed to be six years old last
spring, fifteen hands one inch high, no other marks
perceivable—appraised to sixty dollars by Noah Hanks and James Hanks.

                                                    JAMES HAWORTH, P. P.
                             Nov. 7, 1817.        1,3t


_LOTS_
IN DAYTON, FOR SALE.

I WILL sell the half of Lot No. 164, lying on Main Cross street, on
which is a small brick house.

I will also sell Lots Nos. 5, and 12, lying west of Wilkinson
street,—They are all corner lots, and pleasantly situated. I will give a
credit to the purchaser.

                                                       _JAMES WILLISON._
                         Dayton, Nov. 13, 1817.       51,5t


STOUT & REEVES,

MOST respectfully inform their friends and the public in general, that
they have entered into partnership and will carry on the

                           SADDLING BUSINESS

in all its various branches, on Main-street, next door to Smith and
Eaker’s store. They intend constantly to keep on hand a general
assortment of

           _SADDLES, SADDLE-BAGS, BRIDLES, HARNESS_, &c. &c.

of the newest fashions and made in the most neat and durable manner; all
of which will be sold low for cash, or country produce, delivered at
their shop at the market price.

Those who may be pleased to favor them with their custom, may depend
upon their attending to their directions and orders with pleasure and
promptitude.

                        _Dayton, Nov. 6, 1817._       50,3m


_New_
AND
CHEAP GOODS,
FOR CASH.

The subscriber is now receiving from New York and Philadelphia, a choice
assortment of

                         FALL WINTER AND SPRING
                                 GOODS,

which will be opened and offered for sale at a much cheaper rate than
any _Goods of the same quality_ heretofore in this place, either for
CASH, or

                   APPROVED COUNTRY PRODUCE IN HAND,

and hopes his friends and the public will give him a call and examine
for themselves.

                                                           JOHN COMPTON.
                            _Oct. 2, 1817._       45,3m


NOTICE

IS hereby given to all persons indebted to the estate of Henry Berkhard,
dec’d late of Madison township, Montgomery county, to come and make
immediate payment, and likewise those who have accounts against the said
estate, are required to come forward with their accounts duly
authenticated as the law requires within one year from this date.

                             JOHN BERKHARD,
                             JOHN KESSLER,
                                                            _Executors_.
                            _Nov 15, 1817._       _52,4t_


D. GRIFFIN & CO.

       _Are now receiving a very large and general assortment of_
                          NEW AND FASHIONABLE
                                _Goods_,

which they are opening in their new brick house, next door to _Hugh
M’Cullom’s_ old stand on Main street.

So much has been said respecting _New Goods_, _Cheap Goods_, and _Goods
bought at auction_, that nothing new can be said on the subject. They
can say however, with truth that the goods which they have bought are
new and appear to be of good quality—they have been purchased at a very
low rate, and will be sold lower for _CASH_, than any goods in the
Western country.

                         _Dayton, November 2._       _52,tf_


$200
REWARD.

RANAWAY from the subscriber living in Scott county, Kentucky, on the 3d
of September, a negro man named

                                CHARLES,

about 40 years of age, near 6 feet high, very full in the breast, his
right leg about two inches shorter that the other. It is supposed he
will make for Canada. The above reward will be given for said negro if
delivered to me.

                                                           _EARLY SCOTT_
                             Nov. 20, 1817.       52,3t


D. WOLFF,
TAILOR AND HABITMAKER,

RESPECTFULLY informs the citizens of Dayton and its vicinity that he has
lately removed from Lancaster, Pennsylvania to this place, and has
opened a shop on Market-street, opposite Squire Curtner’s store, where
he will execute all work in his line, with neatness and despatch, and
after the latest and newest fashions in the city of Philadelphia. He
hopes from his long experience in the above business to merit a share of
the public patronage.
                         _November 1st, 1817._       _50,3m_


I HAVE received of the Indians two stray sorrel mares of the following
descriptions, viz.

One has a bald face, both hind feet white, some saddle marks, and is 14
hands high, and 10 years old.

The other has a small star in her face, is much marked with the saddle,
fourteen hands high, and 11 years old.

The owners may receive their property by proving it in the usual manner
on application to

                             JOHN JOHNSTON,
                                                         _Indian Agent_.
                       _Upper Piqua, 22d, 1817._       _50,6t_


NO. 1,
LOWER MARKET-STREET,
CINCINNATI.

THE subscribers having received the balance of their FALL GOODS, now
offer for sale one of the best assortments in Cincinnati, consisting of
every description of

              DRY GOODS, HARDWARE, QUEENSWARE & GROCERIES.
                      _We are still supplied with_
                              CHOICE TEAS,
                             (OF ALL KINDS)

Of the celebrated _North Point’s cargo_, which have been universally
admired.

                                                      JOHN BUFFUM, & CO.
                            _Oct. 17, 1817._       _51,6t_


_From the Western Spy._
EMIGRATION.

As this subject seems at present to occupy much of the public mind on
both sides of the mountains, and has given rise to some
misrepresentation there, I send you the results of some of my
observations, with a hope that by means of your paper, they may find
their way into some of the eastern prints.

Before bringing my family to this country, I came here and explored
it.—I came noddle filled with ideas of roasted pigs running about ready
at every one’s call, of pumpions growing wild, of orchards of best fruit
in the woods, and that every acre was sure to produce at least 100
bushels of corn; while on the other hand, I thought the people a of half
savages, and in fact a _nation of drunkards_. But I found on
examination, that my tavern bills were actually higher than at the
eastward, that property was not to be acquired without industry and good
management, here as well as there; that though the land was rich it
required to be cleared, fenced, and tilled, before a crop could be
expected, and that though a few acres might be found, producing 100
bushels, yet 75 was considered great, and in fact 40 to 50, a tolerable
yield.

I found too that any industrious and prudent man might get rich, that by
working a little, a man might live, and a shifty fellow not working at
all, might stay and keep drunk half his time, which you know to some in
the ‘land of steady habits,’ affords the greatest imaginable felicity. A
man might for one days work in the fall, get two bushels of corn, and
often more, or one of wheat, or from 5 to 10 & 15 pounds or more of
bacon or other wholesome meat, and a little work will feed a family at
that rate. But I found also that two many of those who come here, bring
with them the same ideas I brought, and are of course disappointed;—that
too many of them were instigated to remove to this country by reasons no
way connected with building churches. The disappointed who have not
sufficient fortitude, sink down in despair, having spent their little
all to get here, and betake themselves to trifling in idleness and other
bad practices. Many came here to get rid of so much hard work and pursue
their determination so that they do no work, or very little and thus
between the weak and the wicked we may easily convince how a nation of
drunkards may be formed, and happy if no worse from such materials.

But one fact more I will venture to assert—that the same work will
produce the means of subsistence for more people here then in New
England, of which the following is a proof:—I hired men to till about
five acres of land in corn, the whole expense of plowing, planting,
hoeing, harvesting and board, did not exceed $15, and I had considerably
more than 200 bushels, which were worth at the lowest calculations $50
when it was dry and cribbed, or $40 at the heap. I let 12 acres to a
very lazy kind of fellow, who from the best observation I could make,
did not expend more than twenty days work on it of this own. His wife
did assist him in planting it, sometimes set up the corn after the
plough, and pulled a few of the large weeds out of the hills; but there
never was a hoe in the field after the planting. This brought in to
harvest, which is....

    [Illustration: The Pioneer Home as it appeared in October, 1898. The
    couple shown in the yard are Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Elva Brunk and the
    man holding the team of horses is Andrew Beltz. This picture was
    borrowed from Mrs. Cora Brunk of Springboro, Ohio, who once lived in
    the stone house.]


                             CARILLON PARK
                              DAYTON, OHIO

               One of a series of Carillon Park booklets.
                            Price ten cents.

                                 AS 107
                                  H1WW
                           PRINTED IN U.S.A.




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PIONEER HOME ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.